PMID: 38086904
Title: AI-based diagnosis of nuclear cataract from slit-lamp videos.
Author: ['Shimizu E', 'Tanji M', 'Nakayama S', 'Ishikawa T', 'Agata N', 'Yokoiwa R', 'Nishimura H', 'Khemlani RJ', 'Sato S', 'Hanyuda A', 'Sato Y']
Journal Title: Scientific reports
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 12
Abstract: In ophthalmology, the availability of many fundus photographs and optical coherence tomography images has spurred consideration of using artificial intelligence (AI) for diagnosing retinal and optic nerve disorders. However, AI application for diagnosing anterior segment eye conditions remains unfeasible due to limited standardized images and analysis models. We addressed this limitation by augmenting the quantity of standardized optical images using a video-recordable slit-lamp device. We then investigated whether our proposed machine learning (ML) AI algorithm could accurately diagnose cataracts from videos recorded with this device. We collected 206,574 cataract frames from 1812 cataract eye videos. Ophthalmologists graded the nuclear cataracts (NUCs) using the cataract grading scale of the World Health Organization. These gradings were used to train and validate an ML algorithm. A validation dataset was used to compare the NUC diagnosis and grading of AI and ophthalmologists. The results of individual cataract gradings were: NUC 0: area under the curve (AUC) = 0.967; NUC 1: AUC = 0.928; NUC 2: AUC = 0.923; and NUC 3: AUC = 0.949. Our ML-based cataract diagnostic model achieved performance comparable to a conventional device, presenting a promising and accurate auto diagnostic AI tool.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38086743
Title: Multitask Deep Learning Enabling a Synergy for Cadmium and Methane Mitigation with Biochar Amendments in Paddy Soils.
Author: ['Yin M', 'Zhang X', 'Li F', 'Yan X', 'Zhou X', 'Ran Q', 'Jiang K', 'Borch T', 'Fang L']
Journal Title: Environmental science & technology
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 12
Abstract: Biochar has demonstrated significant promise in addressing heavy metal contamination and methane (CH(4)) emissions in paddy soils; however, achieving a synergy between these two goals is challenging due to various variables, including the characteristics of biochar and soil properties that influence biochar's performance. Here, we successfully developed an interpretable multitask deep learning (MTDL) model by employing a tensor tracking paradigm to facilitate parameter sharing between two separate data sets, enabling a synergy between Cd and CH(4) mitigation with biochar amendments. The characteristics of biochar contribute similar weightings of 67.9% and 62.5% to Cd and CH(4) mitigation, respectively, but their relative importance in determining biochar's performance varies significantly. Notably, this MTDL model excels in custom-tailoring biochar to synergistically mitigate Cd and CH(4) in paddy soils across a wide geographic range, surpassing traditional machine learning models. Our findings deepen our understanding of the interactive effects of Cd and CH(4) mitigation with biochar amendments in paddy soils, and they also potentially extend the application of artificial intelligence in sustainable environmental remediation, especially when dealing with multiple objectives.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38086371
Title: The hardware is the software.
Author: ['Laydevant J', 'Wright LG', 'Wang T', 'McMahon PL']
Journal Title: Neuron
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 5
Abstract: Human brains and bodies are not hardware running software: the hardware is the software. We reason that because the physics of artificial intelligence hardware and of human biological "hardware" is distinct, neuromorphic engineers need to be selective in the inspiration we take from neuroscience.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38086341
Title: The association between education and cognitive performance varies at different levels of cognitive performance: a quantile regression approach.
Author: ['Rehnberg J', 'Huisman M', 'Fors S', 'Marseglia A', 'Kok A']
Journal Title: Gerontology
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 12
Abstract: Introduction Educational differences in cognitive performance among older adults are well-documented. Studies that explore this association typically estimate a single average effect of education on cognitive performance. We argue that the processes that contribute to the association between education and cognitive performance are unlikely to have equal effects at all levels of cognitive performance. In this study, we employ an analytical approach that enables us to go beyond averages to examine the association between education and five measures of global and domain-specific cognitive performance across the outcome distributions. Methods This cross-sectional study included 1780 older adults aged 58-68 years from the Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam (LASA). Conditional quantile regression was used to examine variation across the outcome distribution. Cognitive outcomes included Mini-Mental State Examination score (MMSE), crystallized intelligence, information processing speed, episodic memory, and a composite score of global cognitive performance. Results The results showed that the associations between education and different cognitive measures varied across the outcome distributions. Specifically, we found that education had a stronger association with crystallized intelligence, MMSE, and a composite cognitive performance measure in the lower tail of the performance distributions. The associations between education and information processing speed and episodic memory were uniform across the outcome distributions. Conclusion Larger associations between education and some domains of cognitive performance in the lower tail of the performance distributions implies that inequalities are primarily generated among individuals with lower performance, rather than among average and high performers. Additionally, the varying associations across some of the outcome distributions indicate that estimating a single average effect through standard regression methods may overlook variations in cognitive performance between educational groups. Future studies should consider heterogeneity across the outcome distribution.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38085802
Title: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma staging: A narrative review of radiologic techniques and advances.
Author: ['Chu LC', 'Fishman EK']
Journal Title: International journal of surgery (London, England)
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 4
Abstract: Radiology plays an important role in the initial diagnosis and staging of patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). CT is the preferred modality over MRI, due to wider availability, greater consistency in image quality, and lower cost. MRI and PET/CT are usually reserved as problem-solving tools in select patients. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines define resectability criteria based on tumor involvement of the arteries and veins, and triage patients into resectable, borderline resectable, locally advanced, and metastatic categories. Patients with resectable disease are eligible for upfront surgical resection, while patients with high-stage disease are treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy with hopes of downstaging the disease. The accuracy of staging critically depends on imaging technique and the experience of the radiologists. Several challenges in accurate preoperative staging include prediction of lymph node metastases, detection of subtle liver and peritoneal metastases, and disease restaging following neoadjuvant therapy. Artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to function as "second readers" to improve upon the radiologists' detection of small early-stage tumors, which can shift more patients toward surgical resection of potentially curable cancer. AI may also provide imaging biomarkers that can predict disease recurrence and patient survival after pancreatic resection and assist in selection of patients most likely to benefit from surgery thus improving patient outcomes.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38085712
Title: MTSTR: Multi-task learning for low-resolution scene text recognition via dual attention mechanism and its application in logistics industry.
Author: ['Heng H', 'Li S', 'Li P', 'Lin Q', 'Chen Y', 'Zhang L']
Journal Title: PloS one
Publication Date: 2023
Abstract: Recognizing texts in images plays an important role in many applications, such as industrial intelligence, robot vision, automatic driving, command assistance, and scene understanding. Although great progress has been achieved in various fields, research on complex systems modeling using text recognition technology requires further attention. To address this, we propose a new end-to-end multi-task learning method, which includes a super-resolution branch (SRB) and a recognition branch. To effectively learn the semantic information of images, we utilize the feature pyramid network (FPN) to fuse high- and low-level semantic information. The feature map generated by FPN is then delivered separately to the super-resolution branch and the recognition branch. We introduce a novel super-resolution branch, the SRB based on the proposed dual attention mechanism (DAM), designed to enhance the capability of learning low-resolution text features. The DAM incorporates the residual channel attention to enhance channel dependencies and the character attention module to focus on context information. For the recognition branch, the feature map generated by FPN is fed into an RNN sequence module, and an attention-based decoder is constructed to predict the results. To address the issue of low-resolution text recognition in numerous Chinese scenes, we propose the Chinese super-resolution datasets instead of relying on traditional down-sampling techniques to generate training datasets. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed method performs robustly on low-resolution text images and achieves competitive results on benchmark datasets.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38085584
Title: Should Artificial Intelligence Play a Role in Cultivating Social Connections Among Older Adults?
Author: ['Portacolone E', 'Feddoes DE']
Journal Title: AMA journal of ethics
Publication Date: 2023 Nov 1
Abstract: This article draws on 4 case studies from our group's research on older adults living alone in the United States and suggests how artificial intelligence (AI) applications can be used to foster meaningful social connections. This article also warns against ways in which AI applications can reduce physical connections and suggests how AI technology should be implemented to avoid this drawback.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38085539
Title: High Seebeck Coefficient Inorganic Ge(15)Ga(10)Te(75) Core/Polymer Cladding Fibers for Respiration and Body Temperature Monitoring.
Author: ['Gu H', 'Kang S', 'Fu Y', 'Tan L', 'Gao C', 'Zheng Z', 'Lin C']
Journal Title: ACS applied materials & interfaces
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 27
Abstract: Wearable thermal sensors based on thermoelectric (TE) materials with high sensitivity and temperature resolution are extensively used in medical diagnosis, human-machine interfaces, and advanced artificial intelligence. However, their development is greatly limited by the lack of materials with both a high Seebeck coefficient and superior anticrystallization ability. Here, a new inorganic amorphous TE material, Ge(15)Ga(10)Te(75), with a high Seebeck coefficient of 1109 muV/K is reported. Owing to the large difference between the glass-transition temperature and initial crystallization temperature, Ge(15)Ga(10)Te(75) strongly inhibits crystallization during fiber fabrication by thermally codrawing a precast rod comprising a Ge(15)Ga(10)Te(75) core and PP polymer cladding. The temperature difference can be effectively transduced into electrical signals to achieve TE fiber thermal sensing with an accurate temperature resolution of 0.03 K and a fast response time of 4 s. It is important to note that after the 1.5 and 5.5 K temperatures changed repeatedly, the TE properties of the fiber demonstrated high stability. Based on the Seebeck effect and superior flexibility of the fibers, they can be integrated into a mask and wearable fabric for human respiration and body temperature monitoring. The superior thermal sensing performance of the TE fibers together with their natural flexibility and scalable fabrication endow them with promising applications in health-monitoring and intelligent medical systems.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38085285
Title: [Quality indicators artificial intelligence].
Author: ['Lamade A', 'Beekmann D', 'Eickhoff S', 'Grefkes C', 'Tscherpel C', 'Meyding-Lamade U', 'Bassa B']
Journal Title: Der Nervenarzt
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 12
Abstract: The ability of some artificial intelligence (AI) systems to autonomously evolve and the sometimes very limited possibilities to comprehend their decision-making processes present new challenges to our legal system. At a European level this has led to reform efforts, of which the proposal for a European AI regulation promises to close regulatory gaps in existing product safety law through cross-sectoral AI-specific safety requirements. A prerequisite, however, would be that the EU legislator does not only avoid duplications and contradictions with existing safety requirements but also refrains from imposing exaggerated and unattainable demands. If this were to be taken into consideration, the new safety requirements could also be used to specify the undefined standard of care in liability law. Nevertheless, challenges in the context of provability continue to remain unresolved, posing a risk of rendering the legal protection efforts of the aggrieved party ineffective. It remains to be seen whether the EU legislator will address this need for reform with the recently proposed reform of product liability law by the Commission.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38085134
Title: Ultrafast Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced MRI of the Breast: From Theory to Practice.
Author: ['Kataoka M', 'Honda M', 'Sagawa H', 'Ohashi A', 'Sakaguchi R', 'Hashimoto H', 'Iima M', 'Takada M', 'Nakamoto Y']
Journal Title: Journal of magnetic resonance imaging : JMRI
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 12
Abstract: The development of ultrafast dynamic contrast-enhanced (UF-DCE) MRI has occurred in tandem with fast MRI scan techniques, particularly view-sharing and compressed sensing. Understanding the strengths of each technique and optimizing the relevant parameters are essential to their implementation. UF-DCE MRI has now shifted from research protocols to becoming a part of clinical scan protocols for breast cancer. UF-DCE MRI is expected to compensate for the low specificity of abbreviated MRI by adding kinetic information from the upslope of the time-intensity curve. Because kinetic information from UF-DCE MRI is obtained from the shape and timing of the initial upslope, various new kinetic parameters have been proposed. These parameters may be associated with receptor status or prognostic markers for breast cancer. In addition to the diagnosis of malignant lesions, more emphasis has been placed on predicting and evaluating treatment response because hyper-vascularity is linked to the aggressiveness of breast cancers. In clinical practice, it is important to note that breast lesion images obtained from UF-DCE MRI are slightly different from those obtained by conventional DCE MRI in terms of morphology. A major benefit of using UF-DCE MRI is avoidance of the marked or moderate background parenchymal enhancement (BPE) that can obscure the target enhancing lesions. BPE is less prominent in the earlier phases of UF-DCE MRI, which offers better lesion-to-noise contrast. The excellent contrast of early-enhancing vessels provides a key to understanding the detailed pathological structure of tumor-associated vessels. UF-DCE MRI is normally accompanied by a large volume of image data for which automated/artificial intelligence-based processing is expected to be useful. In this review, both the theoretical and practical aspects of UF-DCE MRI are summarized. EVIDENCE LEVEL: 5 TECHNICAL EFFICACY: Stage 2.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38085079
Title: Using AI to Improve Radiologist Performance in Detection of Abnormalities on Chest Radiographs.
Author: ['Bennani S', 'Regnard NE', 'Ventre J', 'Lassalle L', 'Nguyen T', 'Ducarouge A', 'Dargent L', 'Guillo E', 'Gouhier E', 'Zaimi SH', 'Canniff E', 'Malandrin C', 'Khafagy P', 'Koulakian H', 'Revel MP', 'Chassagnon G']
Journal Title: Radiology
Publication Date: 2023 Dec
Abstract: Background Chest radiography remains the most common radiologic examination, and interpretation of its results can be difficult. Purpose To explore the potential benefit of artificial intelligence (AI) assistance in the detection of thoracic abnormalities on chest radiographs by evaluating the performance of radiologists with different levels of expertise, with and without AI assistance. Materials and Methods Patients who underwent both chest radiography and thoracic CT within 72 hours between January 2010 and December 2020 in a French public hospital were screened retrospectively. Radiographs were randomly included until reaching 500 radiographs, with about 50% of radiographs having abnormal findings. A senior thoracic radiologist annotated the radiographs for five abnormalities (pneumothorax, pleural effusion, consolidation, mediastinal and hilar mass, lung nodule) based on the corresponding CT results (ground truth). A total of 12 readers (four thoracic radiologists, four general radiologists, four radiology residents) read half the radiographs without AI and half the radiographs with AI (ChestView; Gleamer). Changes in sensitivity and specificity were measured using paired t tests. Results The study included 500 patients (mean age, 54 years +/- 19 [SD]; 261 female, 239 male), with 522 abnormalities visible on 241 radiographs. On average, for all readers, AI use resulted in an absolute increase in sensitivity of 26% (95% CI: 20, 32), 14% (95% CI: 11, 17), 12% (95% CI: 10, 14), 8.5% (95% CI: 6, 11), and 5.9% (95% CI: 4, 8) for pneumothorax, consolidation, nodule, pleural effusion, and mediastinal and hilar mass, respectively (P < .001). Specificity increased with AI assistance (3.9% [95% CI: 3.2, 4.6], 3.7% [95% CI: 3, 4.4], 2.9% [95% CI: 2.3, 3.5], and 2.1% [95% CI: 1.6, 2.6] for pleural effusion, mediastinal and hilar mass, consolidation, and nodule, respectively), except in the diagnosis of pneumothorax (-0.2%; 95% CI: -0.36, -0.04; P = .01). The mean reading time was 81 seconds without AI versus 56 seconds with AI (31% decrease, P < .001). Conclusion AI-assisted chest radiography interpretation resulted in absolute increases in sensitivity for all radiologists of various levels of expertise and reduced the reading times; specificity increased with AI, except in the diagnosis of pneumothorax. (c) RSNA, 2023 Supplemental material is available for this article.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38084894
Title: Prognostic Value of a Novel Artificial Intelligence-Based Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography-Derived Ischemia Algorithm for Patients with Suspected Coronary Artery Disease.
Author: ['Bar S', 'Nabeta T', 'Maaniitty T', 'Saraste A', 'Bax JJ', 'Earls JP', 'Min JK', 'Knuuti J']
Journal Title: European heart journal. Cardiovascular Imaging
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 12
Abstract: AIMS: Coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) imaging is used to diagnose patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD). A novel artificial-intelligence-guided quantitative computed tomography ischemia algorithm (AI-QCTischemia) aims to identify myocardial ischemia directly from CTA images and may be helpful to improve risk stratification. The aims were 1) the prognostic value of AI-QCTischemia among symptomatic patients with suspected CAD entering diagnostic imaging with coronary CTA, and 2) the prognostic value of AI-QCTischemia separately among patients with no/non-obstructive CAD (</=50% visual diameter stenosis) and obstructive CAD (>50% visual diameter stenosis). METHODS AND RESULTS: For this cohort study, AI-QCTischemia was calculated by blinded analysts among patients with suspected CAD undergoing coronary CTA. The primary endpoint was the composite of death, myocardial infarction (MI), or unstable angina pectoris (uAP) (median follow-up 6.9 years). 1880/2271 (83%) patients were analyzable by AI-QCTischemia. Patients with an abnormal AI-QCTischemia result (n = 509/1880) vs. patients with a normal AI-QCTischemia result (n = 1371/1880) had significantly higher crude and adjusted rates of the primary endpoint (HRadj 1.96,95% CI 1.46-2.63, p < 0.001; covariates: age/sex/hypertension/diabetes/smoking/typical angina). An abnormal AI-QCTischemia result was associated with significantly higher crude and adjusted rates of the primary endpoint among patients with no/non-obstructive CAD (n = 1373/1847) (HRadj 1.81,95% CI 1.09-3.00, p = 0.022), but not among those with obstructive CAD (n = 474/1847) (HRadj 1.26,95% CI 0.75-2.12, p = 0.386) (p-interaction = 0.032). CONCLUSION: Among patients with suspected CAD, an abnormal AI-QCTischemia result was associated with a 2-fold increased adjusted rate of long-term death, MI, or uAP. AI-QCTischemia may be useful to improve risk stratification, especially among patients with no/non-obstructive CAD on coronary CTA.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38084803
Title: The ASQ did not predict low IQ scores when children born VPT were six years.
Author: ['Borg K', 'Hansen BM', 'Klamer A', 'Zachariassen G']
Journal Title: Acta paediatrica (Oslo, Norway : 1992)
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 12
Abstract: AIM: There is a need for methods that can provide valid assessment tools in a follow-up programme without great financial costs. This study assessed the accuracy of the 60-month Ages and Stages Questionnaire as a screening tool to predict a low intelligence quotient score at 6 years in children born very preterm. METHODS: Totally, 54 children participated in a six-year follow-up study, which included an intelligence quotient test at 6 years of age and a 60-month Ages and Stages Questionnaire at four and a half or 5 years of age at respond. We used the receiver operating characteristic curve and evaluated the optimal cut-off score to predict a low intelligence quotient score. RESULTS: At four and a half years, the optimal cut-off value for predicting a low intelligence quotient score was 242, with a sensitivity of 67% and a specificity of 59%. At 5 years, only one child had a low intelligence quotient score, and the analysis was not performed. CONCLUSION: Our results did not support the use of the 60-month Ages and Stages Questionnaire as a valuable screening tool to predict a low intelligence quotient score in children born very preterm at 6 years of age.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38084508
Title: Artificial Intelligence Agents for Materials Sciences.
Author: ['Oliveira ON Jr', 'Christino L', 'Oliveira MCF', 'Paulovich FV']
Journal Title: Journal of chemical information and modeling
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 25
Abstract: The artificial intelligence (AI) tools based on large-language models may serve as a demonstration that we are reaching a groundbreaking new paradigm in which machines themselves will generate knowledge autonomously. This statement is based on the assumption that the ability to master natural languages is the ultimate frontier for this new paradigm and perhaps an essential step to achieving the so-called general artificial intelligence. Autonomous knowledge generation implies that a machine will be able, for instance, to retrieve and understand the contents of the scientific literature and provide interpretations for existing data, allowing it to propose and address new scientific problems. While one may assume that the continued development of AI tools exploiting large-language models, with more data used for training, may lead these systems to learn autonomously, this learning can be accelerated by devising human-assisted strategies to deal with specific tasks. For example, strategies may be implemented for AI tools to emulate the analysis of multivariate data by human experts or in identifying and explaining patterns in temporal series. In addition to generic AI tools, such as Chat AIs, one may conceive personal AI agents, potentially working together, that are likely to serve end users in the near future. In this perspective paper, we discuss the development of this type of agent, focusing on its architecture and requirements. As a proof-of-concept, we exemplify how such an AI agent could work to assist researchers in materials sciences.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38084492
Title: Advances in breast cancer risk modeling: integrating clinics, imaging, pathology and artificial intelligence for personalized risk assessment.
Author: ['Pesapane F', 'Battaglia O', 'Pellegrino G', 'Mangione E', 'Petitto S', 'Fiol Manna ED', 'Cazzaniga L', 'Nicosia L', 'Lazzeroni M', 'Corso G', 'Fusco N', 'Cassano E']
Journal Title: Future oncology (London, England)
Publication Date: 2023 Dec
Abstract: Breast cancer risk models represent the likelihood of developing breast cancer based on risk factors. They enable personalized interventions to improve screening programs. Radiologists identify mammographic density as a significant risk factor and test new imaging techniques. Pathologists provide data for risk assessment. Clinicians conduct individual risk assessments and adopt prevention strategies for high-risk subjects. Tumor genetic testing guides personalized screening and treatment decisions. Artificial intelligence in mammography integrates imaging, clinical, genetic and pathological data to develop risk models. Emerging imaging technologies, genetic testing and molecular profiling improve risk model accuracy. The complexity of the disease, limited data availability and model inputs are discussed. A multidisciplinary approach is essential for earlier detection and improved outcomes.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38084339
Title: Using Artificial Intelligence to Semi-Quantitate Coronary Calcium as an 'Incidentaloma' on Non-Gated, Non-Contrast CT Scans, A Single-Center Descriptive Study in West Michigan.
Author: ['Kerndt CC', 'Chopra R', 'Weber P', 'Rechenberg A', 'Summers D', 'Boyden T', 'Langholz D']
Journal Title: Spartan medical research journal
Publication Date: 2023
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Non-gated, non-contrast computed tomography (CT) scans are commonly ordered for a variety of non-cardiac indications, but do not routinely comment on the presence of coronary artery calcium (CAC)/atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) which is known to correlate with increased cardiovascular risk. Artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms can help detect and quantify CAC/ASCVD which can lead to early treatment and improved outcomes. METHODS: Using an FDA-approved algorithm (NANOX AI) to measure coronary artery calcium (CAC) on non-gated, non-contrast CT chest, 536 serial scans were evaluated in this single-center retrospective study. Scans were categorized by Agatston scores as normal-mild (<100), moderate (100-399), or severe (>/=400). AI results were validated by cardiologist's overread. Patient charts were retrospectively analyzed for clinical characteristics. RESULTS: Of the 527 patients included in this analysis, a total of 258 (48.96%) had moderate-severe disease; of these, 164 patients (63.57%, p< 0.001) had no previous diagnosis of CAD. Of those with moderate-severe disease 135 of 258 (52.33% p=0.006) were not on aspirin and 96 (37.21% p=0.093) were not on statin therapy. Cardiologist interpretation demonstrated 88.76% agreement with AI classification. DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: Machine learning utilized in CT scans obtained for non-cardiac indications can detect and semi-quantitate CAC accurately. Artificial intelligence algorithms can accurately be applied to non-gated, non-contrast CT scans to identify CAC/ASCVD allowing for early medical intervention and improved clinical outcomes.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38084173
Title: A Comprehensive Review of Screening Methods for Ovarian Masses: Towards Earlier Detection.
Author: ['Sahu SA', 'Shrivastava D']
Journal Title: Cureus
Publication Date: 2023 Nov
Abstract: Ovarian masses, ranging from benign cysts to malignant tumors, present complex diagnostic challenges in women's healthcare. Early detection of ovarian masses is paramount for improving patient outcomes, as delayed diagnoses often lead to advanced-stage disease with limited treatment options. This comprehensive review explores screening methods' current state, limitations, and emerging technologies to facilitate earlier detection. The limitations of existing screening methods, such as low sensitivity and specificity, underscore the need for improved early detection strategies. Imaging-based techniques, including transvaginal ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, and computed tomography, are vital in evaluating ovarian masses. However, the emergence of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) applications enhances the accuracy of image interpretation. Blood-based biomarkers, such as CA-125, have been the focus of research for ovarian mass detection. While CA-125 remains widely used, its limitations have prompted investigations into alternative serum biomarkers, including HE4 and miRNA, along with liquid biopsy and circulating tumor DNA. Ultrasound-based scoring systems, such as the risk of malignancy index (RMI), Ovarian-Adnexal Reporting and Data System (O-RADS), and guidelines from the International Ovarian Tumor Analysis (IOTA) group, provide structured approaches for classifying ovarian masses. These systems aid healthcare providers in clinical decision-making. Emerging technologies, such as liquid biopsy, AI, and proteomic/metabolomic approaches, offer promising avenues for enhancing early detection and risk assessment. Liquid biopsy provides noninvasive, real-time monitoring of ovarian masses, while AI and ML applications improve the accuracy of image interpretation. Proteomic and metabolomic studies reveal novel biomarkers and molecular insights. High-risk populations, often associated with genetic mutations such as BRCA1 and BRCA2, require specialized screening strategies. Current guidelines recommend screening modalities, risk-reduction strategies, and shared decision-making. Ongoing research focuses on refining risk assessment and personalized screening for high-risk individuals. This review underscores the importance of early detection in managing ovarian masses, emphasizing the need for improved screening methods, tailored approaches for high-risk populations, and ongoing research to further enhance diagnostic accuracy and patient outcomes.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38084079
Title: Parasitic manipulation or side effects? The effects of past Toxoplasma gondii and Borrelia spp. infections on human personality and cognitive performance are not mediated by impaired health.
Author: ['Flegr J', 'Ullmann J', 'Toman J']
Journal Title: Folia parasitologica
Publication Date: 2023 Nov 28
Abstract: Bacteria Borrelia burgdorferi s. l. and even more the protist Toxoplasma gondii Nicolle et Manceaux, 1908, are known to affect the behaviour and mental health of their animal and human hosts. Both pathogens infect a significant fraction of human population, both are neurotropic and survive in the host's body for a long time. While latent infections were thought to be clinically asymptomatic, recent studies suggest otherwise, revealing adverse effects on human health. It was hypothesised that the specific behavioural effects of these pathogens may be side effects of general health impairments in infected individuals. This hypothesis was tested using about one hour-long survey consisting of questionnaires and performance tests on a cohort of 7,762 members of the internet population. Results showed that individuals infected with T. gondii reported worse physical and mental health, and those infected with Borrelia spp. reported worse physical health than uninfected controls. Furthermore, infected and noninfected individuals differed in several personality traits, including conscientiousness, pathogen disgust, injury disgust, Machiavellianism, narcissism, tribalism, anti-authoritarianism, intelligence, reaction time, and precision. While the majority of behavioural effects associated with Borrelia infection were similar to those associated with Toxoplasma infection, some differences were observed, such as performance in the Stroop test. Path analyses and nonparametric partial Kendall correlation tests showed that these effects were not mediated by impaired health in infected individuals, contradicting the side effects hypothesis.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38084046
Title: Enhancing Opioid Bioactivity Predictions through Integration of Ligand-Based and Structure-Based Drug Discovery Strategies with Transfer and Deep Learning Techniques.
Author: ['Provasi D', 'Filizola M']
Journal Title: The journal of physical chemistry. B
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 21
Abstract: The opioid epidemic has cast a shadow over public health, necessitating immediate action to address its devastating consequences. To effectively combat this crisis, it is crucial to discover better opioid drugs with reduced addiction potential. Artificial intelligence-based and other machine learning tools, particularly deep learning models, have garnered significant attention in recent years for their potential to advance drug discovery. However, using these tools poses challenges, especially when training samples are insufficient to achieve adequate prediction performance. In this study, we investigate the effectiveness of transfer learning in building robust deep learning models to enhance ligand bioactivity prediction for each individual opioid receptor (OR) subtype. This is achieved by leveraging knowledge obtained from pretraining a model using supervised learning on a larger data set of bioactivity data combined with ligand-based and structure-based molecular descriptors related to the entire OR subfamily. Our studies hold the potential to advance opioid research by enabling the rapid identification of novel chemical probes with specific bioactivities, which can aid in the study of receptor function and contribute to the future development of improved opioid therapeutics.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38084030
Title: Intelligence-Dependent Differential Effects of Media Exposure on Executive Function Changes in Children: A Population-Based Cohort Study With a Longitudinal Design.
Author: ['Oh Y', 'Baek JH', 'Joung YS']
Journal Title: Journal of Korean medical science
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 11
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Excessive media use is known to be associated with executive dysfunction in children, but it's unclear whether this exposure can lead to long-term changes of executive function. This study aimed to investigate the association between media exposure and longitudinal changes in executive function within a population-based study, while considering the potential influence of intelligence. METHODS: This study used data from 1,209 participants in the Panel Korea Study for Children. The children's media exposure was measured at ages 7 and 8, and executive function was evaluated annually from ages 7 to 10 using the Executive Function Difficulty Screening Questionnaire. Participants were grouped by media exposure level (low, medium, or high), and longitudinal changes in executive function were analyzed using linear mixed effects models. Subgroup analysis was conducted to investigate how executive function changes varied based on intelligence within each media exposure group. RESULTS: Children with high media exposure (n = 97) had severer executive function difficulties than those with low (n = 141) or medium (n = 971) exposure in all waves. The high exposure group demonstrated persistent higher executive function difficulties up to age 10 after controlling for child gender, intelligence, parental education level and maternal depression. Children with intelligence quotient (IQ) </= 100 in the medium to high media exposure group had significantly more severe executive function difficulties than those with IQ > 100. CONCLUSION: This study provided evidence of a longitudinal negative association between media exposure and executive function. The findings suggest that excessive media exposure may lead to long-term changes in executive function in children and highlight the importance of implementing targeted interventions and educational strategies to mitigate the potential negative effects of excessive media use, particularly for children with lower cognitive abilities.
---------------------------------
