PMID: 38073698
Title: Potential and limitations of ChatGPT and generative artificial intelligence in medical safety education.
Author: ['Wang X', 'Liu XQ']
Journal Title: World journal of clinical cases
Publication Date: 2023 Nov 16
Abstract: The primary objectives of medical safety education are to provide the public with essential knowledge about medications and to foster a scientific approach to drug usage. The era of using artificial intelligence to revolutionize medical safety education has already dawned, and ChatGPT and other generative artificial intelligence models have immense potential in this domain. Notably, they offer a wealth of knowledge, anonymity, continuous availability, and personalized services. However, the practical implementation of generative artificial intelligence models such as ChatGPT in medical safety education still faces several challenges, including concerns about the accuracy of information, legal responsibilities, and ethical obligations. Moving forward, it is crucial to intelligently upgrade ChatGPT by leveraging the strengths of existing medical practices. This task involves further integrating the model with real-life scenarios and proactively addressing ethical and security issues with the ultimate goal of providing the public with comprehensive, convenient, efficient, and personalized medical services.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38073674
Title: Assessment of Preoperative Risk Factors for Post-LASIK Ectasia Development.
Author: ['El-Naggar MT', 'Elkitkat RS', 'Ziada HE', 'Esporcatte LPG', 'Ambrosio R Jr']
Journal Title: Clinical ophthalmology (Auckland, N.Z.)
Publication Date: 2023
Abstract: PURPOSE: To evaluate preoperative risk factors (mainly those related to corneal topography/tomography) for post-LASIK ectasia development. METHODS: A retrospective case review for post-LASIK ectasia for myopia or myopic astigmatism. The evaluated data included preoperative subjective refraction, method of flap creation, and topometric/tomographic parameters from Oculus Pentacam, including subjective curvature pattern, topometric, elevation, and pachymetric indices from the Belin Ambrosio display "BAD", and the Pentacam Random Forest Index (PRFI). Moreover, preoperative ectasia detection indices were calculated (including Percentage of Tissue Altered "PTA" index, Randleman Ectasia Risk Score System "ERSS", and Navarro Index for Corneal Ectasia "NICE"). RESULTS: Twenty-four eyes of 15 patients were enrolled. Concerning the risk factors, age was lower than 25 in 19 eyes (79%); flaps were created using a microkeratome in 17 eyes (70.8%); thinnest pachymetry was lower than 510mum in eight eyes (33%); total deviation from BAD was higher than 1.6 in 50%; Ambrosio's relational thickness (ART) max was lower than 340 in 45.83%; PTA index was higher than 40% in 16%; ERSS was more than 3 points in 62.5%; NICE was higher than 8 points in three eyes (12.5%); PRFI index was more than 0.125 in 87.5%; two eyes (8%) had no identifiable risk factors. CONCLUSION: Current ectasia risk assessment criteria were insufficient for detecting a relatively large number of cases. There is an unequivocal need for more information, which may be derived from biomechanical assessment and epithelial thickness mapping. Novel corneal tomography indices derived from artificial intelligence may increase accuracy in characterizing ectasia susceptibility.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38073638
Title: Advances in neuroproteomics for neurotrauma: unraveling insights for personalized medicine and future prospects.
Author: ['Kobeissy F', 'Goli M', 'Yadikar H', 'Shakkour Z', 'Kurup M', 'Haidar MA', 'Alroumi S', 'Mondello S', 'Wang KK', 'Mechref Y']
Journal Title: Frontiers in neurology
Publication Date: 2023
Abstract: Neuroproteomics, an emerging field at the intersection of neuroscience and proteomics, has garnered significant attention in the context of neurotrauma research. Neuroproteomics involves the quantitative and qualitative analysis of nervous system components, essential for understanding the dynamic events involved in the vast areas of neuroscience, including, but not limited to, neuropsychiatric disorders, neurodegenerative disorders, mental illness, traumatic brain injury, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, and other neurodegenerative diseases. With advancements in mass spectrometry coupled with bioinformatics and systems biology, neuroproteomics has led to the development of innovative techniques such as microproteomics, single-cell proteomics, and imaging mass spectrometry, which have significantly impacted neuronal biomarker research. By analyzing the complex protein interactions and alterations that occur in the injured brain, neuroproteomics provides valuable insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying neurotrauma. This review explores how such insights can be harnessed to advance personalized medicine (PM) approaches, tailoring treatments based on individual patient profiles. Additionally, we highlight the potential future prospects of neuroproteomics, such as identifying novel biomarkers and developing targeted therapies by employing artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML). By shedding light on neurotrauma's current state and future directions, this review aims to stimulate further research and collaboration in this promising and transformative field.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38073539
Title: Clinical reasoning using ChatGPT: Is it beyond credibility for physiotherapists use?
Author: ['Bilika P', 'Stefanouli V', 'Strimpakos N', 'Kapreli EV']
Journal Title: Physiotherapy theory and practice
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 11
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools are gaining popularity in healthcare. OpenAI released ChatGPT on November 30, 2022. ChatGPT is a language model that comprehends and generates human language, providing instant data analysis and recommendations. This is particularly significant in the dynamic field of physiotherapy, where its integration has the potential to enhance healthcare efficiency. OBJECTIVES: This study aims to evaluate whether ChatGPT-3.5 (free version) provides consistent and accurate clinical responses, its ability to imitate human clinical reasoning in simple and complex scenarios, and its capability to produce a differential diagnosis. METHODS: Two studies were conducted using the ChatGPT-3.5. Study 1 evaluated the consistency and accuracy of ChatGPT's responses in clinical assessment using ten user-participants who submitted the phrase "Which are the main steps for a completed physiotherapy assessment?" Study 2 assessed ChatGPT's differential diagnostic ability using published case studies by 2 independent participants. The case reports consisted of one simple and one complex scenario. RESULTS: Study 1 underscored the variability in ChatGPT's responses, which ranged from comprehensive to concise. Notably, essential steps such as re-assessment and subjective examination were omitted in 30% and 40% of the responses, respectively. In Study 2, ChatGPT demonstrated its capability to develop evidence-based clinical reasoning, particularly evident in simple clinical scenarios. Question phrasing significantly impacted the generated answers. CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the potential benefits of using ChatGPT in healthcare. It also provides a balanced perspective on ChatGPT's strengths and limitations and emphasizes the importance of using AI tools in a responsible and informed manner.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38073535
Title: Fusion Modeling: Combining Clinical and Imaging Data to Advance Cardiac Care.
Author: ['van Assen M', 'Tariq A', 'Razavi AC', 'Yang C', 'Banerjee I', 'De Cecco CN']
Journal Title: Circulation. Cardiovascular imaging
Publication Date: 2023 Dec
Abstract: In addition to the traditional clinical risk factors, an increasing amount of imaging biomarkers have shown value for cardiovascular risk prediction. Clinical and imaging data are captured from a variety of data sources during multiple patient encounters and are often analyzed independently. Initial studies showed that fusion of both clinical and imaging features results in superior prognostic performance compared with traditional scores. There are different approaches to fusion modeling, combining multiple data resources to optimize predictions, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. However, manual extraction of clinical and imaging data is time and labor intensive and often not feasible in clinical practice. An automated approach for clinical and imaging data extraction is highly desirable. Convolutional neural networks and natural language processing can be utilized for the extraction of electronic medical record data, imaging studies, and free-text data. This review outlines the current status of cardiovascular risk prediction and fusion modeling; and in addition gives an overview of different artificial intelligence approaches to automatically extract data from images and electronic medical records for this purpose.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38073356
Title: Artificial intelligence as a new answer to old challenges in maternal-fetal medicine and obstetrics.
Author: ['Medjedovic E', 'Stanojevic M', 'Jonuzovic-Prosic S', 'Ribic E', 'Begic Z', 'Cerovac A', 'Badnjevic A']
Journal Title: Technology and health care : official journal of the European Society for Engineering and Medicine
Publication Date: 2023 Nov 23
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Following the latest trends in the development of artificial intelligence (AI), the possibility of processing an immense amount of data has created a breakthrough in the medical field. Practitioners can now utilize AI tools to advance diagnostic protocols and improve patient care. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this article is to present the importance and modalities of AI in maternal-fetal medicine and obstetrics and its usefulness in daily clinical work and decision-making process. METHODS: A comprehensive literature review was performed by searching PubMed for articles published from inception up until August 2023, including the search terms "artificial intelligence in obstetrics", "maternal-fetal medicine", and "machine learning" combined through Boolean operators. In addition, references lists of identified articles were further reviewed for inclusion. RESULTS: According to recent research, AI has demonstrated remarkable potential in improving the accuracy and timeliness of diagnoses in maternal-fetal medicine and obstetrics, e.g., advancing perinatal ultrasound technique, monitoring fetal heart rate during labor, or predicting mode of delivery. The combination of AI and obstetric ultrasound can help optimize fetal ultrasound assessment by reducing examination time and improving diagnostic accuracy while reducing physician workload. CONCLUSION: The integration of AI in maternal-fetal medicine and obstetrics has the potential to significantly improve patient outcomes, enhance healthcare efficiency, and individualized care plans. As technology evolves, AI algorithms are likely to become even more sophisticated. However, the successful implementation of AI in maternal-fetal medicine and obstetrics needs to address challenges related to interpretability and reliability.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38073025
Title: Application of Artificial Intelligence or machine learning in risk sharing agreements for pharmacotherapy risk management.
Author: ['Oborotov GA', 'Koshechkin KA', 'Orlov YL']
Journal Title: Journal of integrative bioinformatics
Publication Date: 2023 Sep 1
Abstract: Applications of Artificial Intelligence in medical informatics solutions risk sharing have social value. At a time of ever-increasing cost for the provision of medicines to citizens, there is a need to restrain the growth of health care costs. The search for computer technologies to stop or slow down the growth of costs acquires a new very important and significant meaning. We discussed the two information technologies in pharmacotherapy and the possibility of combining and sharing them, namely the combination of risk-sharing agreements and Machine Learning, which was made possible by the development of Artificial Intelligence (AI). Neural networks could be used to predict the outcome to reduce the risk factors for treatment. AI-based data processing automation technologies could be also used for risk-sharing agreements automation.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38072820
Title: A profile of spatial abilities in people with Down syndrome.
Author: ['Bracken A', 'Hauss J', 'Grinshpun S', 'Lasc D', 'Hershkovich A', 'Yang Y']
Journal Title: Journal of intellectual disability research : JIDR
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 10
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Spatial abilities are fundamental cognitive abilities, have direct applications in daily life, serve as a cognitive foundation for many other complex skills and are used in many specialty jobs. The current study aimed to systematically and comprehensively evaluate the spatial abilities of individuals with Down syndrome (DS) relative to mental ability-matched typically developing (TD) children based on Newcombe and Shipley's double-dimension theoretical framework for classifying spatial abilities. METHODS: Forty adolescents and young adults with DS and 40 TD children completed a nonverbal intelligence test (Raven's), two measures of static-extrinsic skills (water-level task and cart task), two measures of static-intrinsic skills (figure ground and form completion), two measures of dynamic-extrinsic skills (three mountains task and dog task) and two measures of dynamic-intrinsic spatial skills (mental rotation task and block design task). RESULTS: Participants with DS showed reduced performance on two dynamic-intrinsic tasks and one static-extrinsic task (i.e. cart task) relative to TD children. Performances were similar in two dynamic-extrinsic tasks and two static-intrinsic tasks. Analyses of composite accuracy for each spatial category further confirmed deficits in dynamic-intrinsic and static-extrinsic categories for people with DS relative to TD children. CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed an uneven profile of spatial abilities in people with DS relative to ability-matched TD children with particular weaknesses in comprehending and manipulating dynamic-intrinsic and static-extrinsic spatial relations. Furthermore, our research has important clinical implications for more targeted interventions to improve spatial abilities in people with DS.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38072505
Title: Control of movement of underwater swimmers: Animals, simulated animates and swimming robots.
Author: ['Gordleeva SY', 'Kastalskiy IA', 'Tsybina YA', 'Ermolaeva AV', 'Hramov AE', 'Kazantsev VB']
Journal Title: Physics of life reviews
Publication Date: 2023 Dec
Abstract: The control of movement in living organisms represents a fundamental task that the brain has evolved to solve. One crucial aspect is how the nervous system organizes the transformation of sensory information into motor commands. These commands lead to muscle activation and subsequent animal movement, which can exhibit complex patterns. One example of such movement is locomotion, which involves the translation of the entire body through space. Central Pattern Generators (CPGs) are neuronal circuits that provide control signals for these movements. Compared to the intricate circuits found in the brain, CPGs can be simplified into networks of neurons that generate rhythmic activation, coordinating muscle movements. Since the 1990s, researchers have developed numerous models of locomotive circuits to simulate different types of animal movement, including walking, flying, and swimming. Initially, the primary goal of these studies was to construct biomimetic robots. However, it became apparent that simplified CPGs alone were not sufficient to replicate the diverse range of adaptive locomotive movements observed in living organisms. Factors such as sensory modulation, higher-level control, and cognitive components related to learning and memory needed to be considered. This necessitated the use of more complex, high-dimensional circuits, as well as novel materials and hardware, in both modeling and robotics. With advancements in high-power computing, artificial intelligence, big data processing, smart materials, and electronics, the possibility of designing a new generation of true bio-mimetic robots has emerged. These robots have the capability to imitate not only simple locomotion but also exhibit adaptive motor behavior and decision-making. This motivation serves as the foundation for the current review, which aims to analyze existing concepts and models of movement control systems. As an illustrative example, we focus on underwater movement and explore the fundamental biological concepts, as well as the mathematical and physical models that underlie locomotion and its various modulations.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38072221
Title: Economic and environmental costs of cloud for medical imaging and radiology artificial intelligence.
Author: ['Doo FX', 'Kulkarni P', 'Siegel E', 'Toland M', 'Yi PH', 'Carlos RC', 'Parekh VS']
Journal Title: Journal of the American College of Radiology : JACR
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 8
Abstract: Radiology now stands at the cusp of a growing technological revolution driven by artificial intelligence (AI) including large language models (LLMs), which demand robust computing capabilities and vast storage space - requirements often beyond the capacity of current non-cloud informatics systems. Cloud presents a potential solution, and we should weigh both their economic and environmental implications for radiology. These have recently become a cost-effective strategy, providing necessary infrastructure while reducing expenditures associated with hardware ownership, maintenance, and upgrades. Simultaneously, given the optimized energy consumption in modern cloud data centers, this transition is expected to reduce the environmental footprint of radiological operations. The path to cloud integration comes with its own challenges, and radiology informatics leaders must consider elements such as cloud architectural choices, pricing, data security, uptime service agreements, user training/support, and broader interoperability. With the increasing importance of data-driven tools in radiology , understanding and navigating the cloud landscape will be essential for the future of radiology and its various stakeholders.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38072060
Title: Structure, dynamics, and stability of the smallest and most complex 7(1) protein knot.
Author: ['Hsu MF', 'Sriramoju MK', 'Lai CH', 'Chen YR', 'Huang JS', 'Ko TP', 'Huang KF', 'Hsu SD']
Journal Title: The Journal of biological chemistry
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 10
Abstract: Proteins can spontaneously tie a variety of intricate topological knots through twisting and threading of the polypeptide chains. Recently developed artificial intelligence algorithms have predicted several new classes of topological knotted proteins, but the predictions remain to be authenticated experimentally. Here, we showed by X-ray crystallography and solution-state NMR spectroscopy that Q9PR55, an 89-residue protein from Ureaplasma urealyticum, possesses a novel 7(1) knotted topology that is accurately predicted by AlphaFold 2, except for the flexible N terminus. Q9PR55 is monomeric in solution, making it the smallest and most complex knotted protein known to date. In addition to its exceptional chemical stability against urea-induced unfolding, Q9PR55 is remarkably robust to resist the mechanical unfolding-coupled proteolysis by a bacterial proteasome, ClpXP. Our results suggest that the mechanical resistance against pulling-induced unfolding is determined by the complexity of the knotted topology rather than the size of the molecule.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38071872
Title: Evaluating the efficacy of artificial intelligence tools for the automation of systematic reviews in cancer research: A systematic review.
Author: ['Yao X', 'Kumar MV', 'Su E', 'Flores Miranda A', 'Saha A', 'Sussman J']
Journal Title: Cancer epidemiology
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 9
Abstract: To evaluate the performance accuracy and workload savings of artificial intelligence (AI)-based automation tools in comparison with human reviewers in medical literature screening for systematic reviews (SR) of primary studies in cancer research in order to gain insights on improving the efficiency of producing SRs. Medline, Embase, the Cochrane Library, and PROSPERO databases were searched from inception to November 30, 2022. Then, forward and backward literature searches were completed, and the experts in this field including the authors of the articles included were contacted for a thorough grey literature search. This SR was registered on PROSPERO (CRD 42023384772). Among the 3947 studies obtained from search, five studies met the preplanned study selection criteria. These five studies evaluated four AI tools: Abstrackr (four studies), RobotAnalyst (one), EPPI-Reviewer (one), and DistillerSR (one). Without missing final included citations, Abstrackr eliminated 20%-88% of titles and abstracts (time saving of 7-86 hours) and 59% of the full-texts (62 h) from human review across four different cancer-related SRs. In comparison, RobotAnalyst (1% of titles and abstracts, 1 h), EPPI Review (38% of titles and abstracts, 58 h; 59% of full-texts, 62 h), DistillerSR (42% of titles and abstracts, 22 h) also provided similar or lower work savings for single cancer-related SRs. AI-based automation tools exhibited promising but varying levels of accuracy and efficiency during the screening process of medical literature for conducting SRs in the cancer field. Until further progress is made and thorough evaluations are conducted, AI tools should be utilized as supplementary aids rather than complete substitutes for human reviewers.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38071564
Title: Neurodevelopmental outcome at 5.5 years in Dutch preterm infants born at 24-26 weeks' gestational age: the EPI-DAF study.
Author: ['van Beek PE', 'Rijken M', 'Broeders L', 'Ter Horst HJ', 'Koopman-Esseboom C', 'de Kort E', 'Laarman ARC', 'Mulder-de Tollenaer SM', 'Steiner K', 'Swarte RMC', 'van Westering-Kroon E', 'Oei G', 'Leemhuis AG', 'Andriessen P']
Journal Title: Archives of disease in childhood. Fetal and neonatal edition
Publication Date: 2023 Nov 27
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: After lowering the Dutch threshold for active treatment from 25 to 24 completed weeks' gestation, survival to discharge increased by 10% in extremely preterm live born infants. Now that this guideline has been implemented, an accurate description of neurodevelopmental outcome at school age is needed. DESIGN: Population-based cohort study. SETTING: All neonatal intensive care units in the Netherlands. PATIENTS: All infants born between 24(0/7) and 26(6/7) weeks' gestation who were 5.5 years' corrected age (CA) in 2018-2020 were included. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Main outcome measure was neurodevelopmental outcome at 5.5 years. Neurodevelopmental outcome was a composite outcome defined as none, mild or moderate-to-severe impairment (further defined as neurodevelopmental impairment (NDI)), using corrected cognitive score (Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence Scale-III-NL), neurological examination and neurosensory function. Additionally, motor score (Movement Assessment Battery for Children-2-NL) was assessed. All assessments were done as part of the nationwide, standardised follow-up programme. RESULTS: In the 3-year period, a total of 632 infants survived to 5.5 years' CA. Data were available for 484 infants (77%). At 5.5 years' CA, most cognitive and motor (sub)scales were significantly lower compared with the normative mean. Overall, 46% had no impairment, 36% had mild impairment and 18% had NDI. NDI-free survival was 30%, 49% and 67% in live born children at 24, 25 and 26 weeks' gestation, respectively (p<0.001). CONCLUSIONS: After lowering the threshold for supporting active treatment from 25 to 24 completed weeks' gestation, a considerable proportion of the surviving extremely preterm children did not have any impairment at 5.5 years' CA.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38071535
Title: Tumor Location Relative to the Spleen Is a Prognostic Factor in Lymphoma Patients: A Demonstration from the REMARC Trial.
Author: ['Girum KB', 'Cottereau AS', 'Vercellino L', 'Rebaud L', 'Clerc J', 'Casasnovas O', 'Morschhauser F', 'Thieblemont C', 'Buvat I']
Journal Title: Journal of nuclear medicine : official publication, Society of Nuclear Medicine
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 7
Abstract: Baseline [(18)F]FDG PET/CT radiomic features can improve the survival prediction in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The purpose of this study was to investigate whether characterizing tumor locations relative to the spleen location in baseline [(18)F]FDG PET/CT images predicts survival in patients with DLBCL and improves the predictive value of total metabolic tumor volume (TMTV) and age-adjusted international prognostic index (IPI). Methods: This retrospective study included 301 DLBCL patients from the REMARC (NCT01122472) cohort. Physicians delineated the tumor regions, whereas the spleen was automatically segmented using an open-access artificial intelligence algorithm. We systematically measured the distance between the centroid of the spleen and all other lesions, defining the SD of these distances as the lesion spread (SpreadSpleen). We calculated the maximum distance between the spleen and another lesion (Dspleen) for each patient and normalized it with the body surface area, resulting in standardized Dspleen (sDspleen). The predictive value of each PET/CT feature for progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) was evaluated through univariate and multivariate time-dependent Cox models and Kaplan-Meier analysis. Results: In total, 282 patients (mean age, 68.33 +/- 5.41 y; 164 men) were evaluated. The artificial intelligence algorithm successfully segmented the spleen in 96% of the patients. SpreadSpleen, Dspleen, and sDspleen were correlated neither with TMTV (Pearson rho < 0.23) nor with IPI (Pearson rho < 0.15). When median values were used as the cutoff, SpreadSpleen, Dspleen, and sDspleen all significantly classified patients into 2 risk groups for PFS and OS (P < 0.001). They complemented TMTV and IPI to classify the patients into 3 risk groups for PFS and OS (P < 0.001). Integrating SpreadSpleen, Dspleen, or sDspleen into a Cox model on the basis of TMTV, IPI, and TMTV combined with IPI significantly improved the concordance index for PFS and OS (P < 0.05). Conclusion: Baseline PET/CT features that characterize tumor spread and dissemination relative to the spleen strongly predicted survival in patients with DLBCL. Integrating these features with TMTV and IPI further improved survival prediction.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38071181
Title: Advancement of artificial intelligence systems for surveillance endoscopy of Barrett's esophagus.
Author: ['Jong MR', 'de Groof AJ']
Journal Title: Digestive and liver disease : official journal of the Italian Society of Gastroenterology and the Italian Association for the Study of the Liver
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 8
Abstract: Barrett's esophagus (BE) is a precursor disease for esophageal adenocarcinoma. Timely detection and treatment has significant influence on patient outcomes. Over the last years, several artificial intelligence (AI) systems have emerged to assist the endoscopist. The primary focus of research has been computer aided detection (CADe). Several groups have succeeded in developing competitive models for neoplasia detection. Additionally, computer aided diagnosis (CADx) models have been developed for subsequent lesion characterization and assistance in clinical decision making. Future studies should focus on bridging the domain gap between academic development and integration in daily practice.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38070845
Title: Genome-wide analyses of vocabulary size in infancy and toddlerhood: associations with ADHD, literacy and cognition-related traits.
Author: ['Verhoef E', 'Allegrini AG', 'Jansen PR', 'Lange K', 'Wang CA', 'Morgan AT', 'Ahluwalia TS', 'Symeonides C', 'Eising E', 'Franken MC', 'Hypponen E', 'Mansell T', 'Olislagers M', 'Omerovic E', 'Rimfeld K', 'Schlag F', 'Selzam S', 'Shapland CY', 'Tiemeier H', 'Whitehouse AJO', 'Saffery R', 'Bonnelykke K', 'Reilly S', 'Pennell CE', 'Wake M', 'Cecil CAM', 'Plomin R', 'Fisher SE', 'St Pourcain B', 'Andreassen OA', 'Bartels M', 'Boomsma D', 'Dale PS', 'Ehli E', 'Fernandez-Orth D', 'Guxens M', 'Hakulinen C', 'Harris KM', 'Haworth S', 'de Hoyos L', 'Jaddoe V', 'Keltikangas-Jarvinen L', 'Lehtimaki T', 'Middeldorp C', 'Min JL', 'Mishra PP', 'Njolstad PR', 'Sunyer J', 'Tate AE', 'Timpson N', 'van der Laan C', 'Vrijheid M', 'Vuoksimaa E', 'Whipp A', 'Ystrom E']
Journal Title: Biological psychiatry
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 7
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The number of words children produce (expressive vocabulary) and understand (receptive vocabulary) changes rapidly during early development, partially due to genetic factors. Here, we performed a meta-genome-wide association study of vocabulary acquisition and investigated polygenic overlap with literacy, cognition, developmental phenotypes and neurodevelopmental conditions, including Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). METHODS: We studied 37,913 parent-reported vocabulary size measures (English, Dutch, Danish) for 17,298 European descent children. Meta-analyses were performed for early-phase expressive (infancy, 15-18 months), late-phase expressive (toddlerhood, 24-38 months) and late-phase receptive (toddlerhood, 24-38 months) vocabulary. Subsequently, we estimated Single-Nucleotide Polymorphism heritability (SNP-h(2)) and genetic correlations (r(g)), and modelled underlying factor structures with multivariate models. RESULTS: Early-life vocabulary size was modestly heritable (SNP-h(2): 0.08(SE=0.01) to 0.24(SE=0.03)). Genetic overlap between infant expressive and toddler receptive vocabulary was negligible (r(g)=0.07(SE=0.10)), although each measure was moderately related to toddler expressive vocabulary (r(g)=0.69(SE=0.14) and r(g)=0.67(SE=0.16), respectively), suggesting a multi-factorial genetic architecture. Both infant and toddler expressive vocabulary were genetically linked to literacy (e.g. spelling: r(g)=0.58(SE=0.20) and r(g)=0.79(SE=0.25), respectively), underlining genetic similarity. However, genetic association of early-life vocabulary with educational attainment and intelligence emerged in toddlerhood only (e.g. receptive vocabulary and intelligence: r(g)=0.36(SE=0.12)). Increased ADHD risk was genetically associated with larger infant expressive vocabulary (r(g)=0.23(SE=0.08)). Multivariate genetic models in the ALSPAC cohort confirmed this finding for ADHD symptoms (r(g)=0.54(SE=0.26)), but showed that the association effect reversed for toddler receptive vocabulary (r(g)=-0.74(SE=0.23)), highlighting developmental heterogeneity. CONCLUSIONS: The genetic architecture of early-life vocabulary changes during development, shaping polygenic association patterns with later-life ADHD, literacy and cognition-related traits.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38070597
Title: Artificial Intelligence-Powered Assessment of Pathologic Response to Neoadjuvant Atezolizumab in Patients With NSCLC: Results From the LCMC3 Study.
Author: ['Dacic S', 'Travis WD', 'Giltnane JM', 'Kos F', 'Abel J', 'Hilz S', 'Fujimoto J', 'Sholl L', 'Ritter J', 'Khalil F', 'Liu Y', 'Taylor-Weiner A', 'Resnick M', 'Yu H', 'Hirsch FR', 'Bunn PA Jr', 'Carbone DP', 'Rusch V', 'Kwiatkowski DJ', 'Johnson BE', 'Lee JM', 'Hennek SR', 'Wapinski I', 'Nicholas A', 'Johnson A', 'Schulze K', 'Kris MG', 'Wistuba II']
Journal Title: Journal of thoracic oncology : official publication of the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 7
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Pathologic response (PathR) by histopathologic assessment of resected specimens may be an early clinical end point associated with long-term outcomes with neoadjuvant therapy. Digital pathology may improve the efficiency and precision of PathR assessment. LCMC3 (NCT02927301) evaluated neoadjuvant atezolizumab in patients with resectable NSCLC and reported a 20% major PathR rate. METHODS: We determined PathR in primary tumor resection specimens using guidelines-based visual techniques and developed a convolutional neural network model using the same criteria to digitally measure the percent viable tumor on whole-slide images. Concordance was evaluated between visual determination of percent viable tumor (n = 151) performed by one of the 47 local pathologists and three central pathologists. RESULTS: For concordance among visual determination of percent viable tumor, the interclass correlation coefficient was 0.87 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.84-0.90). Agreement for visually assessed less than or equal to 10% viable tumor (major PathR [MPR]) in the primary tumor was 92.1% (Fleiss kappa = 0.83). Digitally assessed percent viable tumor (n = 136) correlated with visual assessment (Pearson r = 0.73; digital/visual slope = 0.28). Digitally assessed MPR predicted visually assessed MPR with outstanding discrimination (area under receiver operating characteristic curve, 0.98) and was associated with longer disease-free survival (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.30; 95% CI: 0.09-0.97, p = 0.033) and overall survival (HR = 0.14, 95% CI: 0.02-1.06, p = 0.027) versus no MPR. Digitally assessed PathR strongly correlated with visual measurements. CONCLUSIONS: Artificial intelligence-powered digital pathology exhibits promise in assisting pathologic assessments in neoadjuvant NSCLC clinical trials. The development of artificial intelligence-powered approaches in clinical settings may aid pathologists in clinical operations, including routine PathR assessments, and subsequently support improved patient care and long-term outcomes.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38070173
Title: Evaluation framework for conversational agents with artificial intelligence in health interventions: a systematic scoping review.
Author: ['Ding H', 'Simmich J', 'Vaezipour A', 'Andrews N', 'Russell T']
Journal Title: Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association : JAMIA
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 9
Abstract: OBJECTIVES: Conversational agents (CAs) with emerging artificial intelligence present new opportunities to assist in health interventions but are difficult to evaluate, deterring their applications in the real world. We aimed to synthesize existing evidence and knowledge and outline an evaluation framework for CA interventions. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a systematic scoping review to investigate designs and outcome measures used in the studies that evaluated CAs for health interventions. We then nested the results into an overarching digital health framework proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO). RESULTS: The review included 81 studies evaluating CAs in experimental (n = 59), observational (n = 15) trials, and other research designs (n = 7). Most studies (n = 72, 89%) were published in the past 5 years. The proposed CA-evaluation framework includes 4 evaluation stages: (1) feasibility/usability, (2) efficacy, (3) effectiveness, and (4) implementation, aligning with WHO's stepwise evaluation strategy. Across these stages, this article presents the essential evidence of different study designs (n = 8), sample sizes, and main evaluation categories (n = 7) with subcategories (n = 40). The main evaluation categories included (1) functionality, (2) safety and information quality, (3) user experience, (4) clinical and health outcomes, (5) costs and cost benefits, (6) usage, adherence, and uptake, and (7) user characteristics for implementation research. Furthermore, the framework highlighted the essential evaluation areas (potential primary outcomes) and gaps across the evaluation stages. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: This review presents a new framework with practical design details to support the evaluation of CA interventions in healthcare research. PROTOCOL REGISTRATION: The Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/9hq2v) on March 22, 2021.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38070128
Title: Evaluating the performance of large language models in haematopoietic stem cell transplantation decision-making.
Author: ['Civettini I', 'Zappaterra A', 'Granelli BM', 'Rindone G', 'Aroldi A', 'Bonfanti S', 'Colombo F', 'Fedele M', 'Grillo G', 'Parma M', 'Perfetti P', 'Terruzzi E', 'Gambacorti-Passerini C', 'Ramazzotti D', 'Cavalca F']
Journal Title: British journal of haematology
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 9
Abstract: In a first-of-its-kind study, we assessed the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) in making complex decisions in haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The evaluation was conducted not only for Generative Pre-trained Transformer 4 (GPT-4) but also conducted on other artificial intelligence models: PaLm 2 and Llama-2. Using detailed haematological histories that include both clinical, molecular and donor data, we conducted a triple-blind survey to compare LLMs to haematology residents. We found that residents significantly outperformed LLMs (p = 0.02), particularly in transplant eligibility assessment (p = 0.01). Our triple-blind methodology aimed to mitigate potential biases in evaluating LLMs and revealed both their promise and limitations in deciphering complex haematological clinical scenarios.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38070003
Title: Lessons learned from investigating patients' and physiotherapists' perspectives on the design of a telerehabilitation platform.
Author: ['Amorim P', 'Paiva J', 'Silva de Lima J', 'Portugal da Fonseca L', 'Martins H', 'Silva PA']
Journal Title: Disability and rehabilitation. Assistive technology
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 9
Abstract: PURPOSE: Home self-rehabilitation exercises for musculoskeletal conditions are a valuable complement to rehabilitation plans. Telerehabilitation systems using artificial intelligence can provide reliable solutions and empower patients by providing them with guidance and motivating them to engage in rehabilitation plans and activities. This study aims to understand the patient's and physiotherapist's perspective on the requirements of effective face-to-face physiotherapy sessions to inspire the design of a telerehabilitation platform to be used in home settings. METHODS: The authors used an ethnography-informed approach through observation and semi-structured interviews with patients (n = 13) and physiotherapists (n = 10) in two outpatient rehabilitation clinics. The AEIOU framework was used to structure and analyse the observation. Thematic analysis was used to code and analyse the data collected from the observations and the interviews. RESULTS: Patients' and physiotherapists' perspectives emphasise the need for exercise instruction clarity, evolution monitoring, and feedback. In the absence of the physiotherapist, in home settings, patients feel insecure and fear execution difficulties and limited exercise instructions, while physiotherapists struggle with controlling patients' home exercise performance. Telerehabilitation is seen as an opportunity to move further into home self-rehabilitation programs. CONCLUSIONS: Besides home exercise monitoring and guidance, telerehabilitation platforms must allow personalization and effective communication between patients and physiotherapists.
---------------------------------
