PMID: 38057106
Title: Explainable artificial intelligence model for the detection of geographic atrophy using colour retinal photographs.
Author: ['Sarao V', 'Veritti D', 'De Nardin A', 'Misciagna M', 'Foresti G', 'Lanzetta P']
Journal Title: BMJ open ophthalmology
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 6
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To develop and validate an explainable artificial intelligence (AI) model for detecting geographic atrophy (GA) via colour retinal photographs. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We conducted a prospective study where colour fundus images were collected from healthy individuals and patients with retinal diseases using an automated imaging system. All images were categorised into three classes: healthy, GA and other retinal diseases, by two experienced retinologists. Simultaneously, an explainable learning model using class activation mapping techniques categorised each image into one of the three classes. The AI system's performance was then compared with manual evaluations. RESULTS: A total of 540 colour retinal photographs were collected. Data was divided such that 300 images from each class trained the AI model, 120 for validation and 120 for performance testing. In distinguishing between GA and healthy eyes, the model demonstrated a sensitivity of 100%, specificity of 97.5% and an overall diagnostic accuracy of 98.4%. Performance metrics like area under the receiver operating characteristic (AUC-ROC, 0.988) and the precision-recall (AUC-PR, 0.952) curves reinforced the model's robust achievement. When differentiating GA from other retinal conditions, the model preserved a diagnostic accuracy of 96.8%, a precision of 90.9% and a recall of 100%, leading to an F1-score of 0.952. The AUC-ROC and AUC-PR scores were 0.975 and 0.909, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Our explainable AI model exhibits excellent performance in detecting GA using colour retinal images. With its high sensitivity, specificity and overall diagnostic accuracy, the AI model stands as a powerful tool for the automated diagnosis of GA.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38056656
Title: Environmental pitfalls and associated human health risks and ecological impacts from landfill leachate contaminants: Current evidence, recommended interventions and future directions.
Author: ['Gunarathne V', 'Phillips AJ', 'Zanoletti A', 'Rajapaksha AU', 'Vithanage M', 'Di Maria F', 'Pivato A', 'Korzeniewska E', 'Bontempi E']
Journal Title: The Science of the total environment
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 4
Abstract: The improper management of solid waste, particularly the dumping of untreated municipal solid waste, poses a growing global challenge in both developed and developing nations. The generation of leachate is one of the significant issues that arise from this practice, and it can have harmful impacts on both the environment and public health. This paper presents an overview of the primary waste types that generate landfill leachate and their characteristics. This includes examining the distribution of waste types in landfills globally and how they have changed over time, which can provide valuable insights into potential pollutants in a given area and their trends. With a lack of specific regulations and growing concerns regarding environmental and health impacts, the paper also focuses on emerging contaminants. Furthermore, the environmental and ecological impacts of leachate, along with associated health risks, are analyzed. The potential applications of landfill leachate, suggested interventions and future directions are also discussed in the manuscript. Finally, this work addresses future research directions in landfill leachate studies, with attention, for the first time to the potentialities that artificial intelligence can offer for landfill leachate management, studies, and applications.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38056403
Title: Humor intelligence: Production, perception, prediction, and measurement.
Author: ['Schweitzer ME']
Journal Title: Current opinion in psychology
Publication Date: 2023 Nov 2
Abstract: We introduce Humor Intelligence (HI) as a distinct form of intelligence. We distinguish HI from both General Intelligence (IQ) and Emotional Intelligence (EI), and we identify three key components of HI: Production, Perception, and Prediction. Production represents the ability to generate and deliver humor; perception represents the ability to recognize humor; and prediction represents the ability to forecast what others will find funny. We introduce a measure to assess Humor Production.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38056135
Title: ChatGPT as an aid for pathological diagnosis of cancer.
Author: ['Malik S', 'Zaheer S']
Journal Title: Pathology, research and practice
Publication Date: 2023 Nov 29
Abstract: Diagnostic workup of cancer patients is highly reliant on the science of pathology using cytopathology, histopathology, and other ancillary techniques like immunohistochemistry and molecular cytogenetics. Data processing and learning by means of artificial intelligence (AI) has become a spearhead for the advancement of medicine, with pathology and laboratory medicine being no exceptions. ChatGPT, an artificial intelligence (AI)-based chatbot, that was recently launched by OpenAI, is currently a talk of the town, and its role in cancer diagnosis is also being explored meticulously. Pathology workflow by integration of digital slides, implementation of advanced algorithms, and computer-aided diagnostic techniques extend the frontiers of the pathologist's view beyond a microscopic slide and enables effective integration, assimilation, and utilization of knowledge that is beyond human limits and boundaries. Despite of it's numerous advantages in the pathological diagnosis of cancer, it comes with several challenges like integration of digital slides with input language parameters, problems of bias, and legal issues which have to be addressed and worked up soon so that we as a pathologists diagnosing malignancies are on the same band wagon and don't miss the train.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38056048
Title: The artificial intelligence revolution in primary care: Challenges, dilemmas and opportunities.
Author: ['Vidal-Alaball J', 'Panades Zafra R', 'Escale-Besa A', 'Martinez-Millana A']
Journal Title: Atencion primaria
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 5
Abstract: Artificial intelligence (AI) can be a valuable tool for primary care (PC), as, among other things, it can help healthcare professionals improve diagnostic accuracy, chronic disease management and the overall efficiency of the care they provide. It is important to emphasise that AI should not be seen as a replacement tool, but as an aid to PC professionals. Although AI is capable of processing large amounts of data and generating accurate predictions, it cannot replace the skill and expertise of professionals in clinical decision making. AI still requires the interpretation and clinical judgement of a trained healthcare professional and cannot provide the empathy and emotional support often required in healthcare.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38056001
Title: Transformational leadership competency: a cross-sectional study of medical university graduates in China.
Author: ['Li Y', 'Li S', 'Yang K', 'Liu Y', 'Chen L', 'Chen J', 'Wen X', 'Ji T', 'Chen K', 'Wu L', 'Ji X', 'Lu J']
Journal Title: Annals of medicine
Publication Date: 2023
Abstract: PURPOSE: To explore the transformational leadership competency of graduates from one medical university in China and its influencing variables. METHOD: From 2020 to 2021, 851 medical graduates from seven hospitals affiliated with the Capital Medical University participated in this survey. The authors conducted a cross-sectional study to assess transformational leadership competency, particularly from three aspects, including values, Emotional Intelligence (EI) abilities, and behaviors using the socially responsible leadership scale (SRLS), emotionally intelligent leadership, and student leadership practices inventory (EILI and SLPI). RESULTS: The SRLS scores were medium except for 'controversy with civility'. The EILI scores were medium. The SLPI scores were high except for 'enable others to act' and 'encourage the heart'. The influencing variables of SRLS, EILI, and SLPI were serving as student cadres, serving longer than two semesters (p = 0.01, 0.02 in EILI and SLPI), joining student organizations, participating in social practice, voluntary service (p = 0.001 in SLPI), in training classes for student cadres (p = 0.02, 0.01, 0.02 in SRLS, EILI, and SLPI), and attending lectures on leadership (except for indicated, p < 0.001). Regression analysis showed that attending lectures on leadership was associated with high SRLS, EILI, and SLPI scores (p = 0.04, SRLS; p < 0.001, others), and SRLS and EILI scores could affect SLPI score (F = 2674.44, p < 0.001, R(2) = 0.86). CONCLUSIONS: Medical graduates' transformational leadership competency at the Capital Medical University was medium measured from values, EI abilities, and behaviors. Group analysis indicated that knowledge learning, organizational involvement, and social/community involvement were associated with leadership capacity building, meanwhile, leaders' values and EI abilities would affect their behaviors, suggesting medical graduates should undertake leadership training from both knowledge learning and practicing.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38055914
Title: Cancer Informatics for Cancer Centers: Sharing Ideas on How to Build an Artificial Intelligence-Ready Informatics Ecosystem for Radiation Oncology.
Author: ['Bitterman DS', 'Gensheimer MF', 'Jaffray D', 'Pryma DA', 'Jiang SB', 'Morin O', 'Ginart JB', 'Upadhaya T', 'Vallis KA', 'Buatti JM', 'Deasy J', 'Hsiao HT', 'Chung C', 'Fuller CD', 'Greenspan E', 'Cloyd-Warwick K', 'Courdy S', 'Mao A', 'Barnholtz-Sloan J', 'Topaloglu U', 'Hands I', 'Maurer I', 'Terry M', 'Curran WJ', 'Le QT', 'Nadaf S', 'Kibbe W']
Journal Title: JCO clinical cancer informatics
Publication Date: 2023 Sep
Abstract: In August 2022, the Cancer Informatics for Cancer Centers brought together cancer informatics leaders for its biannual symposium, Precision Medicine Applications in Radiation Oncology, co-chaired by Quynh-Thu Le, MD (Stanford University), and Walter J. Curran, MD (GenesisCare). Over the course of 3 days, presenters discussed a range of topics relevant to radiation oncology and the cancer informatics community more broadly, including biomarker development, decision support algorithms, novel imaging tools, theranostics, and artificial intelligence (AI) for the radiotherapy workflow. Since the symposium, there has been an impressive shift in the promise and potential for integration of AI in clinical care, accelerated in large part by major advances in generative AI. AI is now poised more than ever to revolutionize cancer care. Radiation oncology is a field that uses and generates a large amount of digital data and is therefore likely to be one of the first fields to be transformed by AI. As experts in the collection, management, and analysis of these data, the informatics community will take a leading role in ensuring that radiation oncology is prepared to take full advantage of these technological advances. In this report, we provide highlights from the symposium, which took place in Santa Barbara, California, from August 29 to 31, 2022. We discuss lessons learned from the symposium for data acquisition, management, representation, and sharing, and put these themes into context to prepare radiation oncology for the successful and safe integration of AI and informatics technologies.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38055891
Title: Targeting tumor heterogeneity with neoantigen-based cancer vaccines.
Author: ['Pounraj S', 'Chen S', 'Ma L', 'Mazzieri R', 'Dolcetti R', 'Rehm BHA']
Journal Title: Cancer research
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 6
Abstract: Neoantigen-based cancer vaccines have emerged as a promising immunotherapeutic approach to treat cancer. Nevertheless, the high degree of heterogeneity in tumors poses a significant hurdle for developing a vaccine that targets the therapeutically relevant neoantigens capable of effectively stimulating an immune response as each tumor contains numerous unique putative neoantigens. Understanding the complexities of tumor heterogeneity is crucial for the development of personalized neoantigen-based vaccines, which hold the potential to revolutionize cancer treatment and improve patient outcomes. In this review, we discuss recent advancements in the design of neoantigen-based cancer vaccines emphasizing the identification, validation, formulation, and targeting of neoantigens while addressing the challenges posed by tumor heterogeneity. The review highlights the application of cutting-edge approaches, such as single-cell sequencing and artificial intelligence to identify immunogenic neoantigens, while outlining current limitations and proposing future research directions to develop effective neoantigen-based vaccines.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38055862
Title: Enabling High-Performance Pressure and Proximity Dual-Mode Sensing with EGaIn/Ag/ZnO Egg-Shell Ternary Composite Particles.
Author: ['Zhang J', 'Wang X', 'Yang Z', 'Wang J', 'Cao J', 'Chen Q', 'Yu S', 'Zhang J', 'Guo T', 'Li H', 'Huang X']
Journal Title: ACS applied materials & interfaces
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 20
Abstract: Eutectic gallium-indium alloy (EGaIn) is a biocompatible liquid metal, promising for wearable electronics. Through functionalization and formation of composites, EGaIn-based materials have shown potential in multifunctional sensing devices. Here, egg-shell EGaIn/Ag/ZnO ternary composite particles were prepared through an ultrasound-assisted displacement reaction combined with room-temperature hydrolysis. The composite was further constructed as a wearable sensor capable of both pressure and proximity detection. For pressure sensing, due to the decrease in the Young's modulus of the egg-shell structure and the presence of the electrical double layers between Ag and ZnO, which enriched surface charges, the sensor showed excellent sensitivity at low pressures (2.17 KPa(-1), <0.4 KPa) and thus the ability to sense body movements. For proximity sensing, the composite sensor was able to detect approaching objects that were up to 20 cm away. By combining and fitting the sensing curves for both the touchless and touching modes, the extracted parameters were used to create fingerprints for different objects, demonstrating the great potential of our sensor in the differentiation and identification of unknown objects for future robotics and artificial intelligence.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38055710
Title: AI-based approach for transcribing and classifying unstructured emergency call data: A methodological proposal.
Author: ['Costa DB', 'Pinna FCA', 'Joiner AP', 'Rice B', 'Souza JVP', 'Gabella JL', 'Andrade L', 'Vissoci JRN', 'Neto JC']
Journal Title: PLOS digital health
Publication Date: 2023 Dec
Abstract: Emergency care-sensitive conditions (ECSCs) require rapid identification and treatment and are responsible for over half of all deaths worldwide. Prehospital emergency care (PEC) can provide rapid treatment and access to definitive care for many ECSCs and can reduce mortality in several different settings. The objective of this study is to propose a method for using artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) to transcribe audio, extract, and classify unstructured emergency call data in the Servico de Atendimento Movel de Urgencia (SAMU) system in southern Brazil. The study used all "1-9-2" calls received in 2019 by the SAMU Novo Norte Emergency Regulation Center (ERC) call center in Maringa, in the Brazilian state of Parana. The calls were processed through a pipeline using machine learning algorithms, including Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) models for transcription of audio calls in Portuguese, and a Natural Language Understanding (NLU) classification model. The pipeline was trained and validated using a dataset of labeled calls, which were manually classified by medical students using LabelStudio. The results showed that the AI model was able to accurately transcribe the audio with a Word Error Rate of 42.12% using Wav2Vec 2.0 for ASR transcription of audio calls in Portuguese. Additionally, the NLU classification model had an accuracy of 73.9% in classifying the calls into different categories in a validation subset. The study found that using AI to categorize emergency calls in low- and middle-income countries is largely unexplored, and the applicability of conventional open-source ML models trained on English language datasets is unclear for non-English speaking countries. The study concludes that AI can be used to transcribe audio and extract and classify unstructured emergency call data in an emergency system in southern Brazil as an initial step towards developing a decision-making support tool.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38055626
Title: Statin use moderates APOE's and CRP's associations with dementia and is associated with lesser dementia severity in epsilon4 carriers.
Author: ['Royall DR', 'Palmer RF']
Journal Title: Alzheimer's & dementia : the journal of the Alzheimer's Association
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 6
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: We tested the effect of statins on C-reactive protein (CRP) and apolipoprotein E (APOE)'s associations with dementia severity. METHODS: A total of 1725 participants of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) were assigned from 12-month follow-up data into the following groups: (1) epsilon4 (-)/statin (-), (2) epsilon4 (-)/statin (+), (3) epsilon4 (+)/statin (-), and (4) epsilon4 (+)/statin (+). Dementia severity was assessed by a delta homolog: "dHABS." A mediation model was stratified on statin use and moderation effects tested by a chi-square difference. RESULTS: Plasma CRP level decreased with epsilon4 allelic dose. Statins had no effect on the dHABS d-score in non-carriers but were associated with better scores in carriers. Treated carriers did not have more severe dementia than non-carriers. Statin use moderated the mutual adjusted effects of APOE and CRP. CRP was not a mediator of APOE's effect. DISCUSSION: Statins may provide a protective effect on the dementia severity of epsilon4 carriers. HIGHLIGHTS: delta is a dementia-specific phenotype related to general intelligence "g" and is assessed via a "d-score." Apolipoprotein E (APOE) and plasma C-reactive protein (CRP) are independently associated with delta. Plasma CRP decreases with epsilon4 allelic dose. Statins were associated with better (less demented) d-scores in epsilon4 carriers but had no effect in non-epsilon4 carriers. Treated epsilon4 carriers did not have more severe dementia than non-carriers. Statin use moderated the effects of APOE and CRP on delta. CRP was not a mediator of APOE's effect on delta.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38055624
Title: Artificial Intelligence in Anesthetic Care: A Survey of Physician Anesthesiologists.
Author: ['Estrada Alamo CE', 'Diatta F', 'Monsell SE', 'Lane-Fall MB']
Journal Title: Anesthesia and analgesia
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 7
Abstract: BACKGROUND: This study explored physician anesthesiologists' knowledge, exposure, and perceptions of artificial intelligence (AI) and their associations with attitudes and expectations regarding its use in clinical practice. The findings highlight the importance of understanding anesthesiologists' perspectives for the successful integration of AI into anesthesiology, as AI has the potential to revolutionize the field. METHODS: A cross-sectional survey of 27,056 US physician anesthesiologists was conducted to assess their knowledge, perceptions, and expectations regarding the use of AI in clinical practice. The primary outcome measured was attitude toward the use of AI in clinical practice, with scores of 4 or 5 on a 5-point Likert scale indicating positive attitudes. The anticipated impact of AI on various aspects of professional work was measured using a 3-point Likert scale. Logistic regression was used to explore the relationship between participant responses and attitudes toward the use of AI in clinical practice. RESULTS: A 2021 survey of 27,056 US physician anesthesiologists received 1086 responses (4% response rate). Most respondents were male (71%), active clinicians (93%) under 45 (34%). A majority of anesthesiologists (61%) had some knowledge of AI and 48% had a positive attitude toward using AI in clinical practice. While most respondents believed that AI can improve health care efficiency (79%), timeliness (75%), and effectiveness (69%), they are concerned that its integration in anesthesiology could lead to a decreased demand for anesthesiologists (45%) and decreased earnings (45%). Within a decade, respondents expected AI would outperform them in predicting adverse perioperative events (83%), formulating pain management plans (67%), and conducting airway exams (45%). The absence of algorithmic transparency (60%), an ambiguous environment regarding malpractice (47%), and the possibility of medical errors (47%) were cited as significant barriers to the use of AI in clinical practice. Respondents indicated that their motivation to use AI in clinical practice stemmed from its potential to enhance patient outcomes (81%), lower health care expenditures (54%), reduce bias (55%), and boost productivity (53%). Variables associated with positive attitudes toward AI use in clinical practice included male gender (odds ratio [OR], 1.7; P < .001), 20+ years of experience (OR, 1.8; P < .01), higher AI knowledge (OR, 2.3; P = .01), and greater AI openness (OR, 10.6; P < .01). Anxiety about future earnings was associated with negative attitudes toward AI use in clinical practice (OR, 0.54; P < .01). CONCLUSIONS: Understanding anesthesiologists' perspectives on AI is essential for the effective integration of AI into anesthesiology, as AI has the potential to revolutionize the field.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38055550
Title: The use of POTTER (Predictive Optimal Trees in Emergency Surgery Risk) calculator to predict mortality and complications in patients submitted to Emergency Surgery.
Author: ['Ribeiro Junior MAF', 'Smaniotto R', 'Gebran A', 'Zamudio JP', 'Mohseni S', 'Rodrigues JMDS', 'Kaafarani H']
Journal Title: Revista do Colegio Brasileiro de Cirurgioes
Publication Date: 2023
Abstract: INTRODUCTION: the ability of the care team to reliably predict postoperative risk is essential for improvements in surgical decision-making, patient and family counseling, and resource allocation in hospitals. The Artificial Intelligence (AI)-powered POTTER (Predictive Optimal Trees in Emergency Surgery Risk) calculator represents a user-friendly interface and has since been downloaded in its iPhone and Android format by thousands of surgeons worldwide. It was originally developed to be used in non-traumatic emergency surgery patients. However, Potter has not been validated outside the US yet. In this study, we aimed to validate the POTTER calculator in a Brazilian academic hospital. METHODS: mortality and morbidity were analyzed using the POTTER calculator in both trauma and non-trauma emergency surgery patients submitted to surgical treatment between November 2020 and July 2021. A total of 194 patients were prospectively included in this analysis. RESULTS: regarding the presence of comorbidities, about 20% of the population were diabetics and 30% were smokers. A total of 47.4% of the patients had hypertensive prednisone. After the analysis of the results, we identified an adequate capability to predict 30-day mortality and morbidity for this group of patients. CONCLUSION: the POTTER calculator presented excellent performance in predicting both morbidity and mortality in the studied population, representing an important tool for surgical teams to define risks, benefits, and outcomes for the emergency surgery population.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38055357
Title: AEVAE: Adaptive Evolutionary Autoencoder for Anomaly Detection in Time Series.
Author: ['Hashim AJ', 'Balafar MA', 'Tanha J', 'Baradarani A']
Journal Title: IEEE transactions on neural networks and learning systems
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 6
Abstract: Anomaly detection (AD) has witnessed substantial advancements in recent years due to the increasing need for identifying outliers in various engineering applications that undergo environmental adaptations. Consequently, researchers have focused on developing robust AD methods to enhance system performance. The primary challenge faced by AD algorithms lies in effectively detecting unlabeled abnormalities. This study introduces an adaptive evolutionary autoencoder (AEVAE) approach for AD in time-series data. The proposed methodology leverages the integration of unsupervised machine learning techniques with evolutionary intelligence to classify unlabeled data. The unsupervised learning model employed in this approach is the AE network. A systematic programming framework has been devised to transform AEVAE into a practical and applicable model. The primary objective of AEVAE is to detect and predict outliers in time-series data from unlabeled data sources. The effectiveness, speed, and functionality enhancements of the proposed method are demonstrated through its implementation. Furthermore, a comprehensive statistical analysis based on performance metrics is conducted to validate the advantages of AEVAE in terms of unsupervised AD.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38055323
Title: Performance Comparison of ChatGPT-4 and Japanese Medical Residents in the General Medicine In-Training Examination: Comparison Study.
Author: ['Watari T', 'Takagi S', 'Sakaguchi K', 'Nishizaki Y', 'Shimizu T', 'Yamamoto Y', 'Tokuda Y']
Journal Title: JMIR medical education
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 6
Abstract: BACKGROUND: The reliability of GPT-4, a state-of-the-art expansive language model specializing in clinical reasoning and medical knowledge, remains largely unverified across non-English languages. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to compare fundamental clinical competencies between Japanese residents and GPT-4 by using the General Medicine In-Training Examination (GM-ITE). METHODS: We used the GPT-4 model provided by OpenAI and the GM-ITE examination questions for the years 2020, 2021, and 2022 to conduct a comparative analysis. This analysis focused on evaluating the performance of individuals who were concluding their second year of residency in comparison to that of GPT-4. Given the current abilities of GPT-4, our study included only single-choice exam questions, excluding those involving audio, video, or image data. The assessment included 4 categories: general theory (professionalism and medical interviewing), symptomatology and clinical reasoning, physical examinations and clinical procedures, and specific diseases. Additionally, we categorized the questions into 7 specialty fields and 3 levels of difficulty, which were determined based on residents' correct response rates. RESULTS: Upon examination of 137 GM-ITE questions in Japanese, GPT-4 scores were significantly higher than the mean scores of residents (residents: 55.8%, GPT-4: 70.1%; P<.001). In terms of specific disciplines, GPT-4 scored 23.5 points higher in the "specific diseases," 30.9 points higher in "obstetrics and gynecology," and 26.1 points higher in "internal medicine." In contrast, GPT-4 scores in "medical interviewing and professionalism," "general practice," and "psychiatry" were lower than those of the residents, although this discrepancy was not statistically significant. Upon analyzing scores based on question difficulty, GPT-4 scores were 17.2 points lower for easy problems (P=.007) but were 25.4 and 24.4 points higher for normal and difficult problems, respectively (P<.001). In year-on-year comparisons, GPT-4 scores were 21.7 and 21.5 points higher in the 2020 (P=.01) and 2022 (P=.003) examinations, respectively, but only 3.5 points higher in the 2021 examinations (no significant difference). CONCLUSIONS: In the Japanese language, GPT-4 also outperformed the average medical residents in the GM-ITE test, originally designed for them. Specifically, GPT-4 demonstrated a tendency to score higher on difficult questions with low resident correct response rates and those demanding a more comprehensive understanding of diseases. However, GPT-4 scored comparatively lower on questions that residents could readily answer, such as those testing attitudes toward patients and professionalism, as well as those necessitating an understanding of context and communication. These findings highlight the strengths and limitations of artificial intelligence applications in medical education and practice.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38055227
Title: Analyzing Surgical Technique in Diverse Open Surgical Videos With Multitask Machine Learning.
Author: ['Goodman ED', 'Patel KK', 'Zhang Y', 'Locke W', 'Kennedy CJ', 'Mehrotra R', 'Ren S', 'Guan M', 'Zohar O', 'Downing M', 'Chen HW', 'Clark JZ', 'Berrigan MT', 'Brat GA', 'Yeung-Levy S']
Journal Title: JAMA surgery
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 6
Abstract: OBJECTIVE: To overcome limitations of open surgery artificial intelligence (AI) models by curating the largest collection of annotated videos and to leverage this AI-ready data set to develop a generalizable multitask AI model capable of real-time understanding of clinically significant surgical behaviors in prospectively collected real-world surgical videos. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: The study team programmatically queried open surgery procedures on YouTube and manually annotated selected videos to create the AI-ready data set used to train a multitask AI model for 2 proof-of-concept studies, one generating surgical signatures that define the patterns of a given procedure and the other identifying kinematics of hand motion that correlate with surgeon skill level and experience. The Annotated Videos of Open Surgery (AVOS) data set includes 1997 videos from 23 open-surgical procedure types uploaded to YouTube from 50 countries over the last 15 years. Prospectively recorded surgical videos were collected from a single tertiary care academic medical center. Deidentified videos were recorded of surgeons performing open surgical procedures and analyzed for correlation with surgical training. EXPOSURES: The multitask AI model was trained on the AI-ready video data set and then retrospectively applied to the prospectively collected video data set. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Analysis of open surgical videos in near real-time, performance on AI-ready and prospectively collected videos, and quantification of surgeon skill. RESULTS: Using the AI-ready data set, the study team developed a multitask AI model capable of real-time understanding of surgical behaviors-the building blocks of procedural flow and surgeon skill-across space and time. Through principal component analysis, a single compound skill feature was identified, composed of a linear combination of kinematic hand attributes. This feature was a significant discriminator between experienced surgeons and surgical trainees across 101 prospectively collected surgical videos of 14 operators. For each unit increase in the compound feature value, the odds of the operator being an experienced surgeon were 3.6 times higher (95% CI, 1.67-7.62; P = .001). CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this observational study, the AVOS-trained model was applied to analyze prospectively collected open surgical videos and identify kinematic descriptors of surgical skill related to efficiency of hand motion. The ability to provide AI-deduced insights into surgical structure and skill is valuable in optimizing surgical skill acquisition and ultimately improving surgical care.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38054902
Title: Exploring the pathologist's role in understanding COVID-19: from pneumonia to long-COVID lung sequelae.
Author: ['Olteanu GE', 'Pezzuto F', 'Lunardi F', 'Fortarezza F', 'Dubini A', 'Calabrese F']
Journal Title: Pathologica
Publication Date: 2023 Oct
Abstract: The crucial role of pathologists in enhancing our understanding of SARS-CoV-2-related disease, from initial pneumonia manifestations to persistent long COVID lung symptoms, is the focus of this review. Pathological explorations have offered unprecedented insights into the early stages of severe COVID-19, shedding light on the interplay between the virus and subsequent complications, thereby shaping clinical approaches. Growing interest is directed to residual lung abnormalities of COVID-19 survivors. Although various radiological studies reported long-lasting pulmonary changes (e.g., ground glass opacities, reticulations, and bronchiectasis), the true incidence of pulmonary fibrosis and corresponding pathological findings in these patients remains largely unknown. There are a few high-impact and knowledgeable works on late complications in COVID-19 survivors, several coming from explant or autopsy cases, and rare cases from in vivo sampling. The study of biopsy samples has further deepened our knowledge of the aftermath of COVID-19 on lung tissue, uncovering alterations at the cellular level and shifts in vascular and epithelial dynamics. Despite the substantial progress made, future research is needed to devise a uniform strategy for interpreting lung biopsies, with a focus on leveraging advanced tools such as molecular and digital pathology techniques, along with artificial intelligence.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38054452
Title: Clearing the way for participatory data stewardship in artificial intelligence development: a mixed methods approach.
Author: ['Kelly S', 'Kaye SA', 'White KM', 'Oviedo-Trespalacios O']
Journal Title: Ergonomics
Publication Date: 2023 Nov
Abstract: Participatory data stewardship (PDS) empowers individuals to shape and govern their data via responsible collection and use. As artificial intelligence (AI) requires massive amounts of data, research must assess what factors predict consumers' willingness to provide their data to AI. This mixed-methods study applied the extended Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) with additional predictors of trust and subjective norms. Participants' data donation profile was also measured to assess the influence of individuals' social duty, understanding of the purpose and guilt. Participants (N = 322) completed an experimental survey. Individuals were willing to provide data to AI via PDS when they believed it was their social duty, understood the purpose and trusted AI. However, the TAM may not be a complete model for assessing user willingness. This study establishes that individuals value the importance of trusting and comprehending the broader societal impact of AI when providing their data to AI.Practitioner summary: To build responsible and representative AI, individuals are needed to participate in data stewardship. The factors driving willingness to participate in such methods were studied via an online survey. Trust, social duty and understanding the purpose significantly predicted willingness to provide data to AI via participatory data stewardship.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38054344
Title: Neural networks, AI, and the goals of modeling.
Author: ['Veit W', 'Browning H']
Journal Title: The Behavioral and brain sciences
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 6
Abstract: Deep neural networks (DNNs) have found many useful applications in recent years. Of particular interest have been those instances where their successes imitate human cognition and many consider artificial intelligences to offer a lens for understanding human intelligence. Here, we criticize the underlying conflation between the predictive and explanatory power of DNNs by examining the goals of modeling.
---------------------------------
PMID: 38054236
Title: Identifying Behavior Change Techniques in an Artificial Intelligence-Based Fitness App: A Content Analysis.
Author: ['Kuru H']
Journal Title: Health education & behavior : the official publication of the Society for Public Health Education
Publication Date: 2023 Dec 6
Abstract: In the field of artificial intelligence-based fitness apps, the effective integration of behavior change techniques (BCTs) is critical for promoting physical activity and improving health outcomes. However, the specific BCTs employed by apps and their impact on user engagement and behavior change are not explored sufficiently. This study investigates the Freeletics fitness app through a mixed-methods approach to evaluate the use of BCTs. In the quantitative analysis, fifteen unique BCTs were identified based on the Behavior Change Technique Taxonomy (V1). In the qualitative analysis, user reviews (n=400) were examined to understand perspectives on the app's effectiveness in promoting behavior change. Goal setting, action planning, self-monitoring of behavior, and social support were among the most prevalent BCTs identified in the Freeletics app, and their effectiveness in enhancing user engagement and promoting behavior change was also highlighted by user reviews. Among the areas of improvement identified in the study were the need for simplifying personalization options and addressing user concerns regarding the specificity of feedback. The study underscores the importance of integrating BCTs effectively within AI-based fitness apps to drive user engagement and facilitate behavior change. It contributes valuable insights into the design and implementation of BCTs in fitness apps and offers recommendations for developers, emphasizing the significance of goal setting, feedback mechanisms, self-monitoring, and social support. By understanding the impact of specific BCTs on user behavior and addressing user concerns, developers can create more effective fitness apps, ultimately promoting healthier lifestyles and positive behavior change.
---------------------------------
